An Operating System is a System software that 
-	manages all the resources of the computing device
-	Acts as an interface between the software and different parts of the computer or the computer hardware.
-	Controls and monitors the execution of all other programs that reside in the computer, which also includes application programs and other system software of the computer.
-	Examples of Operating Systems are Windows, Linux, macOS, Android, iOS, etc.

Functions of operating system 
-	Resource Management 
-	Process Management 
-	Memory Management 
-	Security 
-	File Management 
-	Device Management 
-	Networking 
Linux Architecture 
The main components of Linux operating system are: Application, Shell, Kernel, Hardware, Utilities
 
Linux operating system architecture
1. Kernel:
Kernel is the main core component if Linux, it controls the activity of other hardware components. It visualizes the common hardware resources and provide each process with necessary virtual resources. It makes the process to wait in the ready queue and execute in consequently to avoid any kind of conflict.
2. Shell:
Shell can be determined as the interface to the kernel, which hides the internal execution of functions of kernel from the user. Users can just enter the commend and using the kernel’s function that specific task is performed accordingly.
3. Hardware Layer:
Hardware layer of Linux is the lowest level of operating system track. It is plays a vital role in managing all the hardware components. It includes device drivers, kernel functions, memory management, CPU control, and I/O operations.



Linux commands to understand about machine 
Uname – displays kernel name 
Uname -a prints all info about os , machine
hostname – provides machine name
hostname -i provides ip address of host 
ifconfig – provides ip 
whoami – shows current user
who – prints users who are all logged
man commandname – provides info about command
ex: man ls 

Day2 
ls - (list) command in Linux lists directory contents, displaying files and subdirectories
ls -a – lists along with hidden files 
clear – clears screen ctrl + l – shortcut 
cd – change directory 
cd .. – go one step back cd ../../ - goes two step back 
cd directoryname 
touch filename – create empty file 
ex: touch file1
echo – displays whatever provided 
cat- read the contents of file 
ex: cat file1
> -  overwrites contents of file 
Ex: echo ‘’first line” > file1 
Cat file1 
First line 
>>- merges with present content 
echo “second line” >> file1 
cat file1 
First line 
Second line 
mkdir – creates directory 
mkdir -p dir1/dir2 – creates directory inside directory 
rm filename – removes file 
rm -rf – remove directory 



