Linux
An Operating System is a System software that 
-	manages all the resources of the computing device
-	Acts as an interface between the software and different parts of the computer or the computer hardware.
-	Controls and monitors the execution of all other programs that reside in the computer, which also includes application programs and other system software of the computer.
-	Examples of Operating Systems are Windows, Linux, macOS, Android, iOS, etc.

Functions of operating system 
-	Resource Management 
-	Process Management 
-	Memory Management 
-	Security 
-	File Management 
-	Device Management 
-	Networking 
Linux Architecture 
The main components of Linux operating system are: Application, Shell, Kernel, Hardware, Utilities
 
Linux operating system architecture
1. Kernel:
Kernel is the main core component if Linux, it controls the activity of other hardware components. It visualizes the common hardware resources and provide each process with necessary virtual resources. It makes the process to wait in the ready queue and execute in consequently to avoid any kind of conflict.
2. Shell:
Shell can be determined as the interface to the kernel, which hides the internal execution of functions of kernel from the user. Users can just enter the commend and using the kernel’s function that specific task is performed accordingly.
3. Hardware Layer:
Hardware layer of Linux is the lowest level of operating system track. It is plays a vital role in managing all the hardware components. It includes device drivers, kernel functions, memory management, CPU control, and I/O operations.



Linux commands to understand about machine 
Uname – displays kernel name 
Uname -a prints all info about os , machine
hostname – provides machine name
hostname -i provides ip address of host 
ifconfig – provides ip 
whoami – shows current user
who – prints users who are all logged
man commandname – provides info about command
ex: man ls 

Day2 
ls - (list) command in Linux lists directory contents, displaying files and subdirectories
ls -a – lists along with hidden files 
clear – clears screen ctrl + l – shortcut 
cd – change directory 
cd .. – go one step back cd ../../ - goes two step back 
cd directoryname 
touch filename – create empty file 
ex: touch file1
echo – displays whatever provided 
cat- read the contents of file 
ex: cat file1
> -  overwrites contents of file 
Ex: echo ‘’first line” > file1 
Cat file1 
First line 
>>- merges with present content 
echo “second line” >> file1 
cat file1 
First line 
Second line 
mkdir – creates directory 
mkdir -p dir1/dir2 – creates directory inside directory 
rm filename – removes file 
rm -rf – remove directory 
pwd – present working directory – shows current directory 
Head - allows users to view the first few lines of a file or stream
By default, the head shows the first 10 lines of a file
 
 
 
 
 
Tail: prints the last N number of data of the given input. By default, it prints the last 10 lines of the specified files.
Syntax of Tail Command in Linux
tail [OPTION]... [FILE]...
 
tail -n 3 state.txt or tail -3 state.txt
tail +n file_name, data will start printing from line number ‘n’ till the end of the file specified.
tail +25 state.txt

 `-c` num Option in Tail Command in Linux
Prints the last ‘num’ bytes from the file specified
With negative num
tail -c -7 state.txt

or
tail -c 7 state.txt
With positive num
tail -c +263 state.txt
3. `-q` Option in Tail Command in Linux
It is used if more than 1 file is given. Because of this command, data from each file is not precedes by its file name.
But before lets see text inside capital.txt file.
cat capital.txt
With using -q option
tail state.txt -q capital.txt
4. `-f` Option in Tail Command in Linux
This option is mainly used by system administration to monitor the growth of the log files written by many Unix program as they are running
5. `-v` Option in Tail Command in Linux
By using this option, data from the specified file is always preceded by its file name.
tail -v state.txt
More: reads files and displays the text one screen at a time
Less: ‘less’ allows you to view text files page by page without loading the entire file into memory. This approach not only speeds up the file loading process, especially for large files, but also enhances your ability to manage and review lengthy documents or logs efficiently.

CP : used to copy contents from one file to other 
Mv: used to move contents from one file to other 
Wc: used to get word count in file 
Vi – text editor in linux 
Ssh- used to login to remote server 
Df- used to find free disk space 
Du – disk utilization 
Ps – process state 
Top - allows users to interactively manage processes
Kill – used to kill the process 
Free – used to find free space
vmstat command in Linux/Unix is a performance monitoring command of the system as it gives the information about processes, memory, paging, block IO, disk, and CPU scheduling. All these functionalities makes the command vmstat also known as virtual memory statistic reporter. 
Systemctl – lets you manage and monitor systemd services and the systemd init system.  
Systemctl status servicename – provides status of service
Systemctl start servicename – starts service 
Systemctl stop servicename – stops service 



